Hmpf!
For instance ?
Oh, very well -
House cleaning -- the key? Oh yes...
Cases - records of some of my earlier cases -- done -- ah -- prematurely. -- before I had such a competent biographer. I think if you knew what I had in this box, you'd ask me to pull some out, instead of putting others in.
Hmm -- here's the record of the Tarleton murders...the case of Varnberry --
The adventure of the Russian woman - and the singular affair of the aluminum crutch.
Yes -- a most amazing story -- it was one April day -- the rain was coming down in torrents...
Heigh ho -- well, I suppose I'd best get to work. Ah -- here -- now here really is something a little recherche. 
But look inside - look inside. 
Well -- what do you make of it?
And there is a stranger story connected with it.
They are history, my dear Watson - they are history.
These are all I have left to remind me of the Musgrave Ritual - fascinating 
You want to interrupt my labors with a silly story -- dear, dear -- and leave all this litter as it is reprehensible, my dear Watson - thoroughly reprehensible.
Very well -- it was one of my first cases -- when I was making a most precarious living out of my sleuthing. It had to do with Reginald Musgrave -- a scion of one of the oldest families in the Kingdom. Well, I hadn't seen Reginald Musgrave for several years -- until one morning I received a note from him. Here it is.
You can imagine my eagerness. In my innermost heart, I believed that I could succeed where others had failed. 
You're much the same I should say, Musgrave. 
Your -- ah - butler is new at his job, isn't he? 
His uniform is rather a bad fit -- and his legs are- better suited to the stable yard than the drawing room. 
What about him?
Brunton's disappeared, eh? Seems to me I've heard you mention his name before.
Rather unusual.
Yes?
Well?
And what was this girl - ah - Rachel like? 
Yes, but look here, Musgrave -- you haven't brought me all the way from London to discuss a servant girl's love affairs?
Dismissal?
And after that little set-to -- you were too annoyed to sleep -- eh, Musgrave?
And Brunton?
Gone? Gone where?
Did you question this girl -- ah -- Rachel?
What was the condition of Brunton's room -- after the disappearance?
Enlightening -- most enlightening. And what was the paper he had in his hand when you surprised him in the library? 
The Musgrave Ritual? What is that?
Could I see it?
Hmm -- this old hall is rather impressive with all its armor and weapons. Wait! I fancy I heard someone on the stairs -- someone on tiptoe.
Be careful -- my dear fellow -- be careful. 
Strange -- I would have sworn I heard footsteps.
How private? I mean -- is there anything there that would benefit anyone else?
Nothing that might lead to blackmail?
I see one of the drawers was broken into -- very amateurish -- I'm afraid Brunton had very little experience
Hmm -- curious old writing -- it dates back to -- ah -- Charles the First I should say. You can tell by the spelling. 
You know the answers by heart, I take it. 
Suppose I read off the questions -- and you give me the answers.
All right -- here goes. Whose was it? 
Who shall have it? 
Where was the sun? 
Where was the shadow? 
How was it stepped?
What shall we give for it?
Why should we give it?
On the contrary, it has tremendous practical importance. Your butler seems to have been a very clever fellow. He has had more insight than ten generations of his masters.
The oak I take it is the one that stands here -- to the east of the house. I noticed it as I drove up.
Yes -- quite a patriarch.
It was there at the Norman Conquest in all probability. Listen! There is someone in the hall outside -- eavesdropping. I'm sure of it this time.
Yes?
Where is that?
Yes -- there's nothing more to do until tomorrow morning in any case.
When the sun is over the oak.
So I understand. Your now butler told me. I've traced her foot-prints to the edge of this lake.
I took the liberty of ordering the drags and grappling hooks at once.
Nothing -- exactly nothing -- hello, there seems to be some excitement now. The drags have caught on something. 
No, it's a large canvas bag.
What's in it?
Stop! Better keep that stuff - bring it along - and don't let it out of your hands. Now let's get back to the house.
No, breakfast will have to be postponed. The sun is now over the oak.
The only thing that puzzles me is the absence of our ancient elm tree.
No. I'm afraid not.
Hmm - that's better - midway between the house and the oak. Yes - that must have been the one. I suppose it's impossible to find out how tall it was. 
Excellent! But how in --
Now then - the shadow of the oak is fairly obvious - we can see that for ourselves - but the shadow of the elm is a bit more difficult.
A fishing rod of six feet -- throws a shadow -- of -- ah -- let me see -- nine feet exactly. Quite simple. Therefore, a tree of sixty-four feet will throw a shadow of ninety six feet - and in the same direction. Where's my tape? Ah, yes -- ninety six feet -- ninety-six yes, here we are.
That's just the beginning -- my dear fellow -- just the beginning -- north ten and ten -- ten steps by each foot I think that means.
Marked with a peg -- now five to the east- - yes, and two to the South.
The old unused door has been used quite recently. The surrounding ivy is all torn.
How long since this wing has been inhabited?
Open the door.
Well, this must be the place indicated by the ritual.
All firmly cemented together -- not even a hollow sound! 
Hold on -- "And so under" -- I nearly forgot that one. Is there a cellar under this place?
Lead me to it -- that's where our search ends. 
What's this - what's this?
Just as I thought. Look here - this piece of wood - it's been used to prop up something heavy. See how both ends are flattened.
Quite sizeable flagstone, eh? He must have had some one to help him. He couldn't raise that by himself.
Yes - he was after the buried treasure. He probably talked Rachel into assisting him -- that's how she happened to be in possession of the bag she threw into the lake.
Hmmm - I can't budge it. Lend a hand, will you Musgrave? 
Quick - prop it up with that piece of wood
That's it --
That my dear Musgrave - is what Brunton was after. Come on -- let's go down.
That was his intention undoubtedly, but I don't think he succeeded.
Because I think I see his feet sticking out from behind the box. Here -- help me move the box.
Quite. Suffocated, I fancy -- this cubbyhole isn't very large.
He was murdered on the second night -- after you discovered him in the library. I can reconstruct the scene fairly easily from the data we have on hand -- Rachel's condition -- the bag found in the lake -- the open door -- the muffler -- and the piece of wood used as a prop. It is the last which is particularly significant He had talked Rachel into assisting him -- realizing that the girl was still infatuated They waited until everyone had gone to bed -- then stole down here. It was a stormy night I believe----
Quite.
The contents of that bag.
Try rubbing one of them -- that reddish one, for instance.
Quite - I imagine that stuff was left in your ancestors' possession by the royal party on the death of Charles first. I congratulate you on its discovery. It is of great intrinsic value but of even greater importance as a historical curiosity.
It is nothing less than the ancient crown of the Kings of England!
Watson, d'you know my most treasured memory of our recent encounter with the white elephant of Parbutipur?
On the contrary, Watson. It was the night you came into the palace in a great state of excitement after you'd shot at a tiger cub. You told us how a shotgun had come on to your veranda and that you had fired a double-barrelled tiger cub at it.
Strychnine can be a very efficient sedative. Well, let's get the bill. I'd like to take a walk through the native markets before we retire. See if you can attract the attention of our waiter.
Why should they? Sahib-ke hissab dough.
Watson, you're a perfect example of the insular Englishman. I'm surprised at you. I should have thought you've lived in India long enough to have a smattering of the language.
Three months in Parbutipur has given me a working knowledge, at least.
Look, Watson. Here comes the manager in a great state of excitement and he's making a bee-line for our table.
Convulsions from a rat bite? Of course my friend will come up. Come on, Watson! Never mind your brandy!
Before you go, where is this... er, giant rat now? And where is its owner?
May I suggest you calm yourself, Mr. Jackson. Your rat--so I have just been told--is trapped in the bathroom there.
My name is Holmes. Sherlock Holmes, and this is my friend Doctor Watson.
I am flattered that my fame has spread so far afield. But don't look worried, Mr. Jackson, I'm not in your room in any professional capacity. My friend Doctor Watson was called in to attend the bitten man. I am here because I was very curious to see how a rat bite could produce convulsions.
Watson, that bitten man had all the symptoms of poisoning, didn't he?
No. Rat bites might cause an infection, but never the symptoms that poor fellow exhibited. Hmm. Very curious. Why does our friend in there keep a rat in his hotel room?
I can't say I'm exactly a rat fancier, Mr. Jackson. But he certainly is a giant. The thing that puzzles me is that his bite has produced the symptoms of acute poisoning in that unfortunate man that was just carried out. How do you account for that?
I should be very interested to hear the story, Mr. Jackson.
Thank you, no. Alcohol is one of the few vices I don't indulge in.
Human sacrifices for a rodent, eh? Go on, Mr. Jackson.
Quiet, Watson.
Very possibly, Mr. Jackson, but I still don't understand the symptoms of poisoning.
You should have been a detective, Mr. Jackson. That's an ingenious deduction... though I can't say I find it an entirely convincing one.
I'm afraid not, Mr. Jackson. I'm on a holiday now and I want to relax.
However, we shall be here for a couple of days yet. And Doctor Watson and myself are neighbors of yours. We are in Suite 109... just down the corridor from you, so please feel free to call on us if you have any more trouble. And now, Watson, let's take that stroll. I want to observe the night life of Calcutta.
Watson, observe the trance-like condition of that snake. See... the glazed eyes... the immobile body... Fascinating. Quite fascinating. The powers of music are often more potent in the animal kingdom than in the human.
Give that fellow a rupee. He's given us a fine performance.
Let's explore the Bazaar a little further.
So you're worried, my dear fellow because I didn't accept Mr. Jackson's commission?
Well, don't be, old fellow. I'm very much interested in the case. But sometimes one has a greater... ah, latitude of behaviour in a case when one is observing it from the outside. If Mr. Jackson thinks he needs protection, he should apply to the official police.
We are going back to the hotel, Watson. But first of all I have a visit to make. This apparently aimless stroll is taking us to the Calcutta Zoo. I want to have a little chat with the curator there. You know Watson, I have a feeling that before this night is out, the giant rat of Sumatra will bite again!
Nonsense.
Confound it! What can't I capture that snake-charming melody?
You're a medical man. You should at least have found it as understandable as I did.
That's it! At last I've got it.
Now I can go to bed.
Hmm... question? What question?
Oh yes. I learnt a great deal. A very great deal. In fact I may say that--
Quick, Watson!
Have you got your revolver with you?
Never mind, I have mine. Here we are--
Watson! See what you can do for that poor fellow there. I'll take care of the rat.
You'd better hurry then. Here... throw this bedspread over it!
Just in time, Mr. Jackson. I was about to bring your pet's career to an abrupt end.
Exactly. All the symptoms of strychnine poisoning! Mr. Jackson, I'm afraid your chances of taking the rat back to America are very slight. I think you'll find the police will insist on killing him and performing an autopsy.
Patience, Watson. They'll be here.
It's hard for me to predict what the police will do, but personally I can see no alternative. The rat has bitten and killed one man, and severely poisoned another. The cause of death looks like strychnine poisoning. It seems obvious that if the rat bite did kill the man, the first thing to do is to dissect the rat and discover how it was able to deliver this lethal bite.
We know it bit him.
I never theorize. By the way, Mr. Jackson--being a zoologist you are naturally familiar with the Tamana... the Tamana... the Darjeeling snow bird?
There's an excellent specimen that's just arrived at the zoo. We saw it earlier on today.
You never remember anything, my dear fellow. Mr. Jackson: The man who was killed here in this room tonight. Have you ever seen him before?
Are you still of the opinion that he was employed by the tribe in Sumatra to recapture the sacred animal?
Ah... that must be the police now.
Thank you.
I'm merely a spectator, Inspector. Pray proceed as though I were not present.
I think if you'll excuse me, gentlemen, I'll turn in. Are you coming Watson? It's a quarter-to-three in the morning.
There is nothing further we can do. Inspector Singh is in efficient command. Good night, Inspector. Good night, Mr. Jackson.
Don't you, Watson? There was nothing more to be learned in there--merely a recapitulation of what we already know. Come into the room and I'll tell you my plans.
Perhaps not. But think of the satisfied sleep you can have on the boat--when the case of the Giant Rat is solved.
Almost, my dear fellow. Almost. There is just one more thing to be done... and it's a job for you.
I must examine that rat before it is taken away. You must get Jackson out as soon as Singh leaves. I don't care what excuse you make, but get him out of the hotel for half-an-hour.
Don't worry, old fellow. I've learnt quite a bit about the behaviour of rats from our visit to the zoo today. Also, you will observe that pair of leather gloves lying on the table there. No, I'm taking no chances. Within an hour from now, I think I can promise you the solution to the case!
You've done splendidly Watson. Splendidly. I have completed my examination of the rat and laid all my plans, and there's no time to waste. Better bring your revolver.
Don't argue. Do as I say. This is a matter of life and death.
Now follow me...
Quickly, Watson... in here...
This is the room next to his. It's empty and I have obtained the key. Come in.
You'll soon see. We open those French windows...
So... and what do we find?
Exactly. A balcony that extends under Mr. Jackson's window. Now slip off your shoes, Watson, and keep your voice down. Come on. We'll have a grandstand seat. And keep your revolver handy... Here we go...
Here we are, Watson. This gives us a view of the whole room.
Shh... Here comes Inspector Singh now. We've timed this perfectly... keep your eyes peeled...
Exactly! And here comes Jackson now! Grab him, Watson! He's trying to get out this way. I'll get the rat!
Look out, Singh! Move away from there!
And that, I think, is the end of the rat. Watson, bring Mr. Jackson back in here.
Inspector Singh, I don't know whether a pair of handcuffs is part of your regular equipment?
Then I suggest you slip them on our friend Mr. Jackson here. He's your murderer.
Hardly. The gallows will get you first.
With pleasure. Let me first slip on these leather gloves. Even in death our rat can still be extremely lethal. Now, gentlemen, to be technical, here is the weapon that was used to commit the murder. This rat. First of all let me point out the fang here. It's really an extremely clever piece of dental work. The center of the tooth has been drilled hollow and in the cavity has been inserted a tiny hypodermic needle--a needle containing strychnine. On biting anything--a natural impulse in a rat--the needle would puncture the skin, injecting strychnine, and so producing immediate death. Ingenious isn't it?
Certainly I'll tell you. Your guess isn't a bad one, Watson. The rat was equipped with a device for protecting itself from capture--but not from a Pygmy Tribe in Sumatra who worship rats. That was a colourful story invented by Mr. Jackson. There are no Pygmies in Sumatra, but there are Pygmies in the Andaman Islands some three-hundred miles away. If you read your papers thoroughly, you will recall that some five weeks ago, the famous Hapang diamond was stolen from the head of the idol worshipped by the Andaman Islanders.
If you will observe the underside of the belly of this rat, you will notice this large bulge. When you perform your autopsy, Mr. Singh, you will find the Hapang diamond cleverly inserted between the skin and the flesh of the dead rat. A very ingenious safe for your treasure, Mr. Jackson--a safe that defends itself with a bite of death. But I'm afraid you reckoned without meeting Sherlock Holmes.
I should save your sympathy, Watson. A man who kills with a rat must expect to die like one!
Good morning, my dear fellow. I hope you slept well.
I'm so glad.
The faculty of deduction is certainly contagious. Yes, I have a new case. After a month of trivialities and stagnation, the wheels revolve once more.
Well, as yet, there isn't much to tell. Have you ever heard of Neil Gibson?
A great deal to do with it, my dear fellow. In fact, he's considered the greatest mining magnate in the world. About five years ago, he bought a large estate in Hampshire. Perhaps you've read of the tragic death of his wife.
That point will be decided when the lady in question -- Grace Dunbar, I believe her name is -- comes up for trial at the forthcoming Winchester Assizes. In any case, it's hard to see what I can do for my client at this late date.
Oh, yes. I forgot I hadn't told you. I'm getting into your involved habit of telling a story backwards. You'd better read this letter; came this morning.
There you have it, Watson. That is the gentleman I await. 
Only what I've been reading in the papers. Apparently, she was past her prime, which was the more unfortunate as this Miss Dunbar, who superintended the education of the two young children, is reputed to be a very attractive young lady.
On Gibson's estate in Hampshire. His wife was found on the grounds nearly half a mile from the manor house, late at night, clad in her dinner dress, with a shawl over her shoulders and -- a revolver bullet through her brain. 
No, there were no clues found at the scene of the crime.
Well, in the first place, there was some very incriminating evidence. A revolver with one discharged chamber -- the calibre corresponding with the bullet in the dead woman's head -- was found on the floor in Miss Dunbar's wardrobe.
Mmm. So the coroner thought. And, to make the case even blacker against Miss Dunbar, the dead woman had a note on her making an appointment at that very spot -- and the note was signed by the governess.
Possibly, Watson, but circumstantial evidence can be very misleading at times.
Ah, there's the gentleman in question, unless I'm very much mistaken, considerably before his time.
Judging by the way he's wrenching at that door bell, he's a man with a violent temper.
Ah, meet him on the stairs, will you, old chap? It'll save Mrs. Hudson a journey.
Mr. Neil Gibson, I presume?
The adjective is your own, Mr. Gibson. Sit down, won't you? By the way, you may speak quite freely in front of Dr. Watson.
Mr. Gibson, my professional charges are on a fixed scale. I don't vary them, except when I omit them altogether.
Yes, very thoroughly.
Well, thank you. First, what were the exact relations between you and Miss Dunbar?
We will agree to suppose so, shall we?
Ohh. I'm rather a busy man, Mr. Gibson, and I've no time or taste for aimless conversation. I wish you good-morning.
My dear sir, the case is difficult enough without your giving me false information.
I was trying to express it as delicately as possible, but - - if you insist on the word I won't contradict you.
Don't be noisy, Mr. Gibson. Please, don't be noisy. I find that after breakfast even the smallest argument is unsettling. I suggest that a stroll in the morning air and a little quiet thought will be greatly to your advantage.
Good-morning, Mr. Gibson. You've a great deal yet to learn.
I dislike liars, Watson, and I cannot tolerate arrogance -- particularly when it's coupled with great wealth.
I didn't. It was pure bluff.
Oh, of course he will. He needs my help too badly. He'll probably change his mind before he's halfway down the stairs.
Come in!
Ah! Mr. Gibson. Just saying to Dr. Watson that I was certain you'd be back.
Surely, that is for me to decide, Mr. Gibson.
The truth.
And then, I suppose, this young governess, Miss Dunbar, arrived on the scene.
Did you suggest marriage to her?
I see. Then you made an utterly insincere proposition to her.
It's only the young lady's sake that forces me to touch your case at all. Now, tell me, sir. What is your own opinion as to Miss Dunbar's guilt?
Pray continue, Mr. Gibson.
Well, that possibility has already occurred to me. It's the only obvious alternative to deliberate murder.
Mr. Gibson, I should like to examine your house and the scene of the murder as soon as possible.
Excellent! Watson, old fellow -- [?] the timetable! We're catching the next fast train to Winchester!
I need not appear in the matter at all, Sergeant Coventry. If I can clear it up, I don't ask to even have my name mentioned.
Yes, sergeant?
Then please ask it.
I've been considering that possibility.
One of a pair? Where's the other?
We'll do that later. 
Ah! This, I presume, is Thor Bridge.
I see. I gathered from the newspaper reports that the shot was fired at very close quarters.
Near the right temple, wasn't it?
Clutched, you say?
Ah, that's of greatest importance. It excludes the idea that anyone could have placed the note there after death in order to furnish a false clue. 
Did Miss Dunbar admit writing it?
What was her explanation?
Yes, it seems odd that Mrs. Gibson was still clutching that note.
Oh, come now, old fellow, argue the thing out logically. If the letter is genuine, it was certainly received some time before the tragedy -- say an hour or two. Why, then, was the dead woman still clasping it in her left hand? Why should she carry it so carefully? She certainly didn't need to refer to the note at all at the interview. Doesn't it strike you as rather strange?
Hello!
Did you notice this, sergeant?
Yes, but it's been done recently. Notice how the stonework is white just here. It took some violence to do that. Hand me your cane, Watson, will you?
Thanks.
Yes, it was a hard knock. And in a curious place, too.
Well, perhaps it hasn't. But it's a point worth noting. There were no footprints, you say, sergeant?
That's a pity. Hmm. Well, sergeant, I'm much obliged to you and now I think we'll go back to the house.
Oh, uh, who is Cesar?
Brazilian, eh? Like Mrs. Gibson?
I'm delighted, sergeant. [Come, Watson, let's] get back to the house.
I see. And these are all the firearms in Mr. Gibson's possession, eh, Cesar?
Did you ever witness physical violence towards Mrs. Gibson?
Thank you, Cesar, that will be all.
I should agree with you if it were not for one fact -- the finding of the revolver in her wardrobe.
I think not, old chap.
We must look for consistency. Where there is a want of it, we must suspect deception.
Suppose for a moment that we visualize you in the character of a woman who, in cold, premeditated fashion, is about to murder a rival. You've planned it. A note has been written. The victim has come. You have a weapon. The crime is well done. It has been workmanlike and complete. Do you mean to tell me that after carrying out so crafty a crime you'd be so stupid as to forget to fling the incriminating revolver to the bottom of the stream? Or perhaps in the dense reeds that border it? Would you carefully carry it home and put it in the first place that would be searched? Your wardrobe?
No, no, my dear chap, I won't admit that's even possible. When a crime is coolly premeditated, then the means of covering it are coolly premeditated also. 
I hope I can give you the answer to that question, Watson, when we've made one further visit.
To prison, old chap.
Yes, we're going to Winchester Prison to call on Miss Dunbar. I'm certain that the key to this strange mystery lies in her hands.
Miss Dunbar, tell us of your true relations with the dead woman.
Please tell us exactly what happened on the evening of Mrs. Gibson's death.
Hmm. And yet she kept your reply very carefully. That's interesting. Tell me what happened when you met her that night.
And yet, presuming she met her death shortly after you left her, you heard no shot?
Did you leave it again that night?
This pistol that [was] found in your room. Had you ever seen it before?
Hm. You've no idea how long it had been there?
How do you know?
I see. Then someone must have come into your room and placed the pistol there in order to incriminate you.
Yes. Miss Dunbar, on examining the scene of Mrs. Gibson's death, I noticed that a piece of stonework on the underside of the parapet of the bridge had been broken away. Can you suggest any possible explanation for that?
Possibly. But why should it appear at the very time of the tragedy, and at the very place? Could it possibly be that--? Why, yes, of course! Idiot! Why didn't I think of it before?! Come along, Watson!
Back to Thor Bridge, old fellow, as fast as we can get there!
The answer to this mystery I hope, my dear young lady. You will get news before the day is out. And meanwhile take my assurance that the clouds are lifting and that the light of truth is breaking through!
Tell you in a few moments. You got my message?
You'll soon see, sergeant. Uh, Watson, I, uh, have some recollection that you usually go armed on these excursions of ours.
Give it to me, old chap, will you? Thanks. I believe your revolver may have a very intimate connection with the mystery we're investigating.
No, Watson, I'm very serious. We have a test to make. If the test is successful, Miss Dunbar will be free before nightfall. And the test will depend on the conduct of this revolver of yours. 
I take the precaution of unloading it. Uh huh. There we are. Now, sergeant, ball of twine, please.
I tie one end of the twine -- like this -- to the handle of the revolver. So. Sergeant, see if you can find me a heavy stone, will you?
Trying to reconstruct the killing of Mrs. Gibson. But you've seen me miss the mark before, Watson. I have an instinct for such things, and yet it has sometimes played me false. It seemed a certainty when it first flashed across my mind in Miss Dunbar's cell, but one drawback of an active mind is that one can always conceive alternative explanations which would make our scent a false one. And yet-- Oh, well. We can but try.
Thank you, sergeant! Now! I tie the other end of this twine to a stone. Wait a minute. Like that. Splendid! Uh, sergeant, will you please take this stone and stretch the twine across the parapet of the bridge there -- so that the stone will swing just clear of the water on the other side of the bridge?
I'll stand on the spot where Mrs. Gibson's body was found. That's it, sergeant. Over the parapet.
Splendid! Now, Watson, watch closely. I raise the revolver to my head.
Don't worry, old chap, it's not loaded. Now, let us imagine I am the late Mrs. Gibson. I raise the revolver to my head and fire it.
Instantly, my fingers release their grip and--
There's your answer, Watson!
Was there ever a more exact demonstration? Come on, old fellow!
Look at that! There's the second chip on the stonework of the parapet here -- same size as the first! 
Wasn't murder at all! It was suicide!
We can follow the various steps quite clearly. A note was extracted very cleverly from Miss Dunbar. A note which made it appear that she had chosen the scene of the crime. Mrs. Gibson, in her anxiety that the note should be discovered, somewhat overdid it by holding it in her hand to the last. That alone should have excited my suspicions earlier than it did.
Exactly! After discharging one of the cartridges, which she could easily do in the woods without attracting suspicion, she then went down to the bridge where she contrived this exceedingly ingenious method of getting rid of her weapon. When Miss Dunbar appeared, she used her last breath in pouring out her hatred, and then, when the girl had left, carried out her terrible purpose. 
You'll find it, with the aid of a grappling hook, at the bottom of the stream, and also the stone and the string, with which this vindictive woman attempted to disguise her own crime and fasten a charge of murder on an innocent victim. 
Ah, I disagree, old chap. And I fear that you will not improve my reputation by adding the case of the Thor Bridge mystery to your annals. 
Oh, no, it isn't, old boy. I've been sluggish in my mind -- and wanting in that mixture of imagination and reality which is the very basis of my art. I confess that the chip in the stonework was a sufficient clue to suggest the true solution, and I blame myself for not having attained it sooner.
Oh? What was that, old fellow?
My dear Miss Tetfield, I found the true murderer of the Dowager Countess and he committed suicide. Surely the case has ended.
Oh, yes, yes, yes. He was the heir to the title, wasn't he?
Mm hm.
Miss Tetfield, have you any direct news, any letter, from your fiancé since he left five years ago? 
Any clues as to his hiding place?
Oh.
Thank you.
Yes. It's a splendid sense of composition and his use of color is unusually brilliant. Do you recognize this painting as the work of your fiancé, Miss Tetfield?
Yes. Wonderful use of color. Observe the delicate shadings of that sunset, and the brilliant green of the oasis. This scene is extraordinarily reminiscent of the desert in North Africa. 
A good place, Watson, for an Englishman who imagines himself to be escaping justice. Remember, the Foreign Legion is stationed there.
It would seem logical. No questions are asked of those who join it and its colorful obscurity might easily appeal to a young fellow in trouble. Hello!
There are quite a few grains of sand in-between the canvas and the frame here. Miss Tetfield, do you mind if I pry the canvas loose?
Give me your pen knife, will you, Watson?
Thanks, old chap. 
Wait a minute. Here we are. 
Uh huh. Look! The words "Sheriff" and "El Affroun" are stamped here. Sheriff is probably the framer's name and El Affroun is a town some fifty miles from Algiers. That settles it. Miss Tetfield, I accept your case. Watson and I will go to Africa and try to find your fiancé, Douglas Milton.
Well, Colonel De Brisson, I am trying to trace an Englishman who has been missing during the past four years. I've reason to believe that he might have joined the Legion.
And he is, I would say, about three inches shorter than Douglas Milton -- and men do not shrink in the Foreign Legion, eh, Colonel?
Unless it's the one who died of dysentery. Colonel De Brisson, how would you advise us to set about trying to find a deserter?
Oh? And what's that place?
Then that's our destination, Watson. 
We shall be very cautious, I assure you. Goodbye, Colonel De Brisson, and thank you for your help.
It's ramifications are even more extensive than those you've mentioned. 
I assure you, I'm not, old fellow. 
My old friend Duemmel is Chief of Police in Algiers. When I told him our mission, he advised me to come here. A five-hundred-franc note and the proprietor can obtain any and all information regarding the underworld. For as little as two hundred francs, he can arrange a murder. So that gives you some idea of the relative values in the Casbah.
Oh, yes, yes, a charming scoundrelly fellow by the name of Rafi. I gave him five hundred francs and asked him to set his underworld grapevine in motion to see whether an Englishman living in hiding here in the Casbah could be found.
Here comes Rafi now. Let's hope he has news for us. Here we are, Rafi! Come sit down, won't you?
My friend knows that you're working with me. What have you found out?
Uh, you have news for me, then?
Good. What is it?
But I gave you five hundred francs. You said that you'd do the job for that.
There you are.
I see.
And if I refuse?
You're a scoundrel, Rafi.
Here's your money. The information?
A girl named Ayisha, in the Café of a Thousand Sighs?
Thank you, thank you, yes. I - I think we can manage by ourselves, Rafi.
Thank you, Rafi, thank you. I have a feeling that time will not weigh heavily on our hands. Good night.
I quite agree, old chap, but he is amusing.
Oh, ho ho! Watson, you're incorrigible. But I think-- Watson?
Look at the man sitting over in the corner by himself.
Of course we have. His name is Oliver Leaming. We met him at the inquest on the Montrevor case. 
Not on a holiday, I'm sure. Mr. Oliver Leaming, if you recall, is a cousin of Douglas Milton's, the man we're searching for. If Milton were ever declared legally dead, Mr. Leaming over there would inherit the title. 
That's true, old fellow. Come on, let's go and talk to the gentleman.
Mr. Oliver Leaming! How very odd to meet you here!
Thank you.
Very considerate of you, I'm sure. Why are you here, Mr. Leaming?
As I recall it, you're in the publishing business.
It seems peculiar that you should be on a business trip here. Are you planning on opening a publishing house in Algiers? Or are you searching the Casbah for new authors?
Mr. Leaming, why don't you admit that you're here for the express purpose of trying to find your cousin Douglas Milton?
Yes, Mr. Leaming, we know that fact.
I believe not, Watson. I think he labors under the whimsical belief that the best method of discounting the truth is to state it baldly so that it will not be believed.
Yes, old chap, we must. I am sure that we're entrants in a race against death. We must get back to the hotel and into our disguises as quickly as possible. After that, we shall visit a young lady named Ayisha in the Café of a Thousand Sighs. And I am certain, Watson, that it will be the first time two men have ever entered the Casbah for the express purpose of preventing a murder!
Yes, Oliver Leaming -- with a knife between his shoulders. 
What can they do? Remember, there is no law in the Casbah. In any case, this man is beyond our help. Our job is to protect the living. Come on, old fellow, let's go to the Café of a Thousand Sighs and find this girl, Ayisha -- the girl Rafi says sings like a nightingale.
Don't forget our role of tourist and guide, old chap. Master? Would wish to meet this Ayisha?
I will see if it can be arranged, master. Wait here for me, Watson. I'll see what I can do.
Mademoiselle Ayisha?
There is an Englishman at the table over there. He wishes to talk to Ayisha.
The man who sits at the table in the corner. He is very rich, Ayisha, and he admires you a great deal. He told me to give you this five-hundred-franc note.
Good, Ayisha. I fetch him.
Ayisha will see you, master. Follow me, please.
Don't worry, Watson. In this case, I think honesty will be the best policy.
First door to the right at the top of the stairs. This is it. [X]
Mademoiselle, I, uh, may as well tell you at once that I am not an Arab guide. My name is Sherlock Holmes.
Don't be frightened, Mademoiselle. I can explain our mission in a very few words. My friend and I have come in search of an Englishman by the name of Douglas Milton. We have good news for him. 
A gentleman by the name of Rafi suggested that you might.
That he has been cleared of suspicion of murder and that he is the rightful Earl of Montrevor.
It gives me infinite pleasure to have succeeded in my mission. How do you do, sir?
Yes, it would be most appropriate for toasting the new Earl of Montrevor.
I shouldn't let that fact worry you, Mr. Milton. I'm certain the British consul in Algiers can arrange to have any charges dropped against a peer of the realm.
Mr. Milton, do you know Oliver Leaming?
A toast to the new Earl of Montrevor.
Since you feel that way about it, Mr. Milton, why go? You can claim the title and the revenues of the estate without leaving Algeria. You could stay here and live on the income. 
Oh, yes, I'm quite certain of it.
But if you doubt my word, I suggest we all adjourn to the British consulate in Algiers. They can put you straight on the matter.
It's a bloody path that leads to the Montrevor title, sir. I suggest that we see that this poor girl's body is taken care of. And then go to the British consulate without any further delay.
Now that we're at the consulate, Mr. Milton, I suggest that you swear on oath that you are Douglas Milton, heir to the Montrevor estate -- this gentleman is a commissioner of oaths -- then we can go in and see the consul.
Yes, certainly.
Not yet, my friend. Watson, this man is not Douglas Milton.
There is no law in the Casbah, sir, so you cannot be punished for the two murders you committed there. But now that your avarice has tempted you here to Algiers where you've been foolish enough to sign a false statement, I think we can at least settle you very nicely for desertion, false impersonation, forgery and perjury.
The story should be obvious, old fellow. Oliver Leaming did track down the deserter. Recognition was uncertain after so many years, but at least it gave this gentleman the idea of impersonating the real Douglas Milton, a friend of his.
The real Douglas Milton died of dysentery two years ago in Sidi Rached. As soon as the idea of impersonating Milton was born, Leaming had to die. 
Very simply, my dear sir. Douglas Milton was a painter -- a painter who excelled in the use of vivid colors. You, sir, suffer from the quite common malady of red-green color blindness. Less than an hour ago, you mistook a glass of port, which is red, for a glass of crème de menthe, which is green. I knew at once that you were an impostor.
No, no, Watson. Don't go after him.
Don't worry, old chap, he won't escape. I sent a message to Colonel de Brisson. If you go to the window, I think you'll find that the consulate is being watched.
The Legion has a long memory for desertion. I don't think he'll get very far.
A just death for him. He lived a life of violence and treachery, Watson. It's only fitting that he should die in the same manner.
Marriage suits you, Watson. You look in splendid shape.
And in practice again, I see. You didn't tell me that you'd gone back into harness.
Elementary, my dear chap. If a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver on his right forefinger and a bulge on the left side of his hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope, I should be dull, indeed, if I didn't pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.
Yes, you are, old fellow, but it's a most welcome interruption.
It looks like it. This letter arrived by the last post today. It's undated, and has neither signature nor address. Read it.
Look carefully at the note, Watson. What do you deduce from it?
Peculiar -- that's the very word. It's not an English paper at all. Hold it up to the light. You notice anything?
Mm hm.
What does that suggest to you?
Not at all, my dear fellow. The "G" with the small "t" stands for "Gesellschaft," which is the German for "Company."
That stands for Egria. 
It's in a German-speaking country in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad. 
Undoubtedly. And the man who wrote the note is a German.
Observe the curious construction of the sentence, "This account of you we have from all quarters received." A Frenchman or a Russian could not have written that. It's the German who is so discourteous to his verbs.
No, no, no, no -- unless you have to. 
Then, my dear chap, stay. by all means. I'm lost without my Boswell, and this promises to be interesting. I told Mrs. Hudson to let the masked visitor come upstairs unannounced.
Good evening, sir. 
Yes, indeed. Come in, won't you, and sit down? 
This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson. You may say anything before him that you can say to me. Whom have I the honor to address?
I was well aware of that fact, sir. 
That had not escaped me either, sir. In fact, if you will state your case, I shall be better able to advise you -- your Majesty.
Why, indeed?
Then, pray consult. 
Look her up in the index for me, will you, Watson? It's right beside you on the desk there.
Splendid. Hand me the file, old chap. Thank you. Mm hm! "Irene Adler. Born in New Jersey in the United States of America in Eighteen Fifty-Eight. Contralto." Mm hm. "Prima donna, Imperial Opera of Warsaw." Oh. "Retired from operatic stage. Living in London." Quite so. And here's a recent notation -- uh huh. Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters and is now desirous of getting those letters back.
Was there a secret marriage?
No legal papers or certificates?
Then I fail to follow, your Majesty. If this young lady should produce her letters for blackmailing purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?
Stolen.
Imitated.
Bought.
Oh, dear me. Yes, that's very bad. Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.
Perhaps if you were to pay enough, the photograph might be bought. 
Stolen, then.
Oh, dear, it's quite a pretty little problem. 
How, sir?
And Irene Adler threatens to send the photograph to your fiancée, I suppose? 
And why?
Splendid! Then we still have three days. Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?
Just two questions before you leave. 
Is the photograph large or small? 
I see. And what is Irene Adler's London address, please?
Thank you, your Majesty. Good night, and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you.
You can, my dear chap. I shall be glad of your company. 
A good night's rest. We'll meet here at ten o'clock tomorrow morning. 
Then, my dear fellow, we will see what we can find out about Miss Irene Adler, late of the Warsaw Imperial Opera Company and at present residing at Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John's Wood.
No. A bijou residence that represents the essence of dignified suburbia, but tells us very little about the owner. I think a visit to the local public house might prove more instructive. Come on, old chap. I see the door of the Coach and Horse is inviting us from across the road.
[That's why] I suggested them. In the character of a couple of stable hands, I felt that we might inspire confidence. This is a horsy neighborhood, and there's a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among their fraternity. Here we are. Better let me do most of the talking.
Let's go in, shall we? 
'Alf a bowl of malt, please. 'Ow 'bout you, Charley?
Have a drink wiv us, governor?
Oh, yes. We just come over from Clapham.
Yes, that's right. We was told that Miss Adler across at Briony Lodge needed a new coachman and groom.
No, not yet. We thought we'd find out something about the old girl first.
Oh. What's she like?
Oh, she ain't married, you say?
Sounds like a nice, cushy job to me. Come on, Charley, let's get over to the house and see what's what. Much obliged to you, chum.
Let's stroll back to Briony Lodge, shall we? I'm undecided whether to continue my investigations there or to try and find out something about Mr. Geoffrey Norton, the barrister. If he is just her lawyer and nothing else, it's more than likely that she's entrusted the photograph to his safekeeping.
Hurry, Watson. It may be Mr. Norton's.
Yes! And here comes a man hurrying down the pathway. Quick -- behind this post. Listen!
Try and signal a cab, Watson! We must follow him!
Miss Adler's, no doubt! Here she comes down the pathway. Back again behind the post, Watson!
The game's afoot! Quick, we must get a cab and follow them! 
Here's half a sovereign for you, my man!
The Church of St. Monica in the Edgeware Road, and another half sovereign for you if you get us there in twenty minutes!
Watson! Watson, have they left?
Splendid. Then come on -- we can return to Baker Street. 
They were married.
Of course. The ceremony would have been illegal if performed after noon. That accounted for their wild dash to the church. Jump into the cab, old fellow. 
Two Twenty-One B, Baker Street.
Yes. And it may amuse you to know that I acted as witness at the ceremony. 
Their own witness had failed to appear and I was dragged into the breach. The bride gave me this sovereign as a memento. I, uh, think I'll wear it on my watch-chain in memory of the occasion.
I hope so, Watson, I hope so. But we can't afford to take any chances. I think the time is ripe for us to come to closer grips with the lady!
With pleasure, my dear fellow -- and while I'm so doing, I'll proceed with applying the makeup for my new disguise.
I think the character and appearance of an amiable, simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman would be the most suited to my plan for entering Miss Adler's house.
I must, my dear fellow. I'm sure the photograph is there. Miss Adler -- or, rather, Mrs. Norton -- will return from her drive in the park at six-thirty. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.
You must leave that to me. I've already made my arrangements. There is only one point on which I must insist -- you must not interfere, come what may. You understand?
Yes. There will be some small unpleasantness. Don't join in. It will end in my being conveyed into the house. As soon as I am able to, I shall open one of the windows. You are to watch from outside. When I raise my hand, you will throw an object -- that I shall give you -- through the window and, at the same time, cry "Fire!" You follow me?
Oh, it's nothing very formidable. Here it is. 
An ordinary plumber's smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is confined to throwing it through the window. When you raise the cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the street, and I'll rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope I've made myself clear.
Good. And now, old fellow, as soon as I've donned my clerical attire, let's be on our way. There's no time to be lost.
I'm sure she will.
All part of my conspiracy, old chap. You'll see them play their parts in a few minutes.
Yes. It's most unlikely that she carries it about with her. Remember, the king told us it was a large, framed picture. And also remember that she planned to use it within a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands on it. It must be inside her house.
Oh, psh! They didn't know how to look.
I won't. I'll get her to show me. 
She won't be able to-- 
Shh! Here comes the carriage now. Remember, Watson -- carry out my orders to the letter. 
Move out of the way, please, and let the lady through.
I'll - I'll tell you what-- Stop molesting the lady, please!
No, but I know where it is. She showed me, as I told you she would. 
There's no mystery, old chap. When my accomplices started the row in the street, I had a little moist red paint in my hand. My good friend Alfie pretended to strike me; I clapped my hand to my head and fell down. It's an old trick.
It was all-important, my dear fellow. When a woman thinks her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush for the thing that she values most. A married woman grabs her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. In this case, of course, it was the photograph.
In a recess in the living room, just above the right-hand bell-pull. I caught a glimpse of it as she drew it out. When I made it known that the fire was a false alarm, she replaced the photograph. As soon as I was able to, I advised her that I was feeling well enough to leave.
No, I felt that over-precipitance at this stage might ruin everything.
Drive to the Langham Hotel and inform his Majesty of what has happened. Then return with him here. And after that, my dear chap, the case will be ended!
I have every reason to believe so, your Majesty.
Then I suggest that you let me do the talking, your Majesty. I think I know how to handle the lady.
Yes. I am Mr. Holmes. But - how did you know?
We'll soon see. Follow me. 
This was the bell-rope. Sliding panel behind it. 
Uh huh. Here it is. 
There is a photograph, your Majesty. But it's, um, a photograph of the lady alone. Here's a letter -- and it's addressed to me.
"My dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes. You really did it very well. Until after the fire alarm, I had no suspicion. But then, when I realized how I had betrayed myself, I began to think. I had been warned that if the King employed an agent he would certainly employ you. May I congratulate you on your disguise as a dear, old clergyman."
"My husband and I both thought that the best recourse was flight, so you will find the nest empty. As to the photograph of the King and myself, his Majesty may rest in peace." Oh, thank goodness for that. "I love and am loved by a better man than he. I leave another photograph, however, that he might care to possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes, very truly yours, Irene Norton, née Adler." What a woman, Watson; what a woman; what a magnificent woman! She fooled me completely! But-- Oh. I, uh-- I'm sorry, your Majesty, I - I've been unable to bring your business to a more successful conclusion.
Your Majesty has something that I should value even more highly.
This photograph, sir.
Oh no, no, no, your Majesty. This is something I shall treasure all my life. This and a golden sovereign I received from the lady's hand. They will remind me that I was once tricked by a woman! A woman that I shall never forget.
Doesn't he, Mrs. Hudson? Try the beard on, Watson old chap.
Yes, Watson, it really becomes you. The cheery twinkle of the eyes, the ruddy complexion, and the, er-- The appropriate girth. What a shame we can't obtain some snow, and a sleigh and reindeer, for you. However, I'm sure Mrs. Hudson's nieces will be very much impressed.
Oh, don't worry, old chap. I shall spend a profitable evening writing on my new monograph.
An analysis of teeth marks on pipe stems, with particular regard to indicated character.
Don't forget your sack of presents, old fellow.
Ah, when you come to distribute them, you'll find that I took the liberty of adding a few trinkets on my own behalf.
Oh, thank you. Oh! It's old Widecombe! Splendid! Ask him to come up please, Mrs. Hudson.
And I hope your party is a great success, Mrs. Hudson.
Oh, no, no, no; indeed, no, Mrs. Hudson. I can show the gentlemen out myself. You go off and have a good time.
No, no, please, my dear fellow; certainly not.
You've far more important work to do. Widecombe probably wants his revenge at chess or something equally innocuous. Off with you, my dear fellow, and enjoy yourself.
I shall be there. Uh, come on up, Widecombe!
Yes, Widecombe. I'm glad you came over to see me.
What's it to be? An evening of chess? Or have you unearthed some recent treasure of medieval pottery that we can discuss?
Oh, come now, Widecombe. Don't tell me that after all these years of quiet friendship, you're going to become a client.
Oh, thanks.
Ah. Now, my dear Widecombe, what's your trouble?
Oh, my dear fellow, I've adopted many disguises in my time, but Father Christmas has never been one of them. Why do you want me to attend your party in disguise in any case? Are you ashamed of your friendship with a private detective or do you consider my features more acceptable when buried beneath the depths of a snowy beard?
Oh, of course you're not, of course you're not. You, uh-- You want me to attend your party in disguise. Why?
Dear me. Where are these presents now?
Warning letter, eh?
Let me see that note, Widecombe, will you?
Thanks. Mm hm. Plain paper, torn from a penny notebook. Writing is obviously disguised and it-- By George, yes! Widecombe -- I accept the case! I'll come with you to your party at once and, furthermore, I shall follow your suggestion regarding a disguise. Dressed as Santa Claus, I shall be less likely to attract suspicion.
This writing, my dear fellow, this writing. Though it's in a false hand, I'd know that characteristic "M" in "My dear Widecombe." I've seen it too often at the beginning of a signature. Moriarty!
Oh, one of the cleverest and most unscrupulous criminals in England. Widecombe, there's no time to be lost. It's -- let me see now -- six-thirty, half an hour beyond the deadline given you in this letter. We must go to your house at once.
Thirty-Nine Bronson Square, eh? And dear old Watson is just around the corner in Lexington Gardens and hasn't any idea that I've left Baker Street.
Uh huh. Listen to that. Carol singers.
Another Santa Claus? What do you mean?
Confound it! He's got here before us! Where's the study?
Yes, and while you were doing that, he slipped out through the window here. The catch is undone.
Hargrave, describe this man.
Oh? What was that?
Of course! Lou the Lisper!
One of Moriarty's most trusted accomplices. Fortunately, though, I've had news of him lately through my underworld grapevine.
He's reputed to have some connections with a new cult that calls themselves the Disciples of the Octagonal Square. Their headquarters are just around the corner from here.
Of course. And, Hargrave--?
Get a message to Scotland Yard as fast as you can. Ask for Inspector Lestrade, and tell him to join me at the Temple of the Octagonal Square in Lexington Gardens as soon as possible.
Here by the bed. This is the only room in the temple that gives any signs of having been lived in. I think our bird has been here, but I'm afraid he's flown. Wish Inspector Lestrade would get here. Strike a match, will you, Widecombe?
Ah, just as I feared! Look on the bed.
Yes. Lou the Lisper has discarded his disguise and gone -- and with him, I'm afraid, your valuable presents.
What in thunder--? Why, this is Watson's sack!
Somewhere, somehow, he and Watson must have made an accidental change and Lou the Lisper is no doubt trying to track Watson down at this very moment. We must work fast, Widecombe -- or my friend's life, and those of Mrs. Hudson and her relatives, won't be worth a tinker's dam!
Lestrade, this is no time for post mortems. We've got to reach Lou the Lisper before he finds Dr. Watson.
It wouldn't be difficult. Lou the Lisper is nearly as clever as his master, Professor Moriarty. The chances are that you were followed when you came to Baker Street tonight, Widecombe. And it's equally likely that Watson and Mrs. Hudson were followed as they left it. Moriarty seldom leaves anything to chance.
Twenty-Eight Lexington Gardens. It's just around the corner from here.
And frighten our quarry away? No, no, no, no, Lestrade. We must use a little subtlety. Now, Lou the Lisper wishes to recover that sack of presents from Watson. How would he invade the party with the least possible trouble?
No. No, I think he's overplayed that role for one evening.
Oh, come now, Lestrade. What group of people can enter any house on Christmas Eve without invitation and without creating suspicion?
Exactly, my dear fellow! I shouldn't be at all surprised if at this very moment Lou the Lisper and some of his gang are singing carols outside Twenty-Eight Lexington Gardens.
Form a rival choral society. How many of your men did you bring with you?
Wearing greatcoats?
Good. They can hide their helmets and pretend to be singers. Come on. Let's go over there and, while we're walking, we'll rehearse our carols. We must appear reasonably convincing. Sound your A, Lestrade, sound your A!
Sh-sh-sh! Listen. Uh huh. Lou the Lisper and his men are already there.
In a moment. Now, men -- you have your truncheons handy?
Splendid. Now, remember -- when we're inside and I yell "Merry Christmas" at the top of my voice, you bring out your truncheons and get Lou the Lisper and his gang out of there as quickly as possible. Don't arrest them until you get them outside again, Lestrade; I don't want to frighten the children.
How are ye, matey? You were here before us, hey? Well, what d'you say we all join in a little carol for the nippers, hey?
How 'bout "Hark! The Herald Angels Sing," eh?
Merrrrry Christmas!
I'll explain it to you later, old chap. Lestrade?!
Take them to Scotland Yard and prefer charges. I'll be over in a little while and give evidence.
Well, at least we have some of his cohorts. I'll see you later, Lestrade.
Yes, Watson, and I'll tell you all about it as soon as I've straightened this thing out. Oh, Widecombe?
The twenty-pound notes that you used as wrapping for your gifts seem to have been scattered all over the house. Uh, do you want me to recover them, too?
A very generous Christmas gift. Well, children -- did you enjoy the little game we staged for you?
I'm glad you enjoyed it, children. And now I, er-- I want you to show me the presents you received.
Oh, they were a part of the game, too! A nice little girl like you doesn't want silly earrings, Elsie. Here's a beautiful doll for you.
And what did you get, my little man?
Oh, cufflinks! Good gracious, who wants cufflinks when he can have a - a clockwork train! You want to exchange?
And here you are, children. Here's a nice big box of chocolates, too. You can all share them.
Yes, old fellow. Mrs. Hudson?
How's the turkey coming along?
Splendid. And, while we're waiting, perhaps the children will oblige with something we haven't heard so far this evening.
An astonishing deduction, Watson.
I suppose so. Has it ever occurred to you Watson that the history of bells is full of romantic interest?
Almost every historical event has been accompanied by the sound of bells. They summon soldiers to arms, as well as Christians to church. They sounded the alarm in 5 ? 2 Multan invasion. And many a bloody chapter in history has been rung in and out by bells.
Yes, Watson. It's a fascinating subject.
I have no idea.
Watson, you have the sentimental imagination of the true storyteller. But we've come here for a holiday. You must give your imagination a rest, too. So, drink your tea, remove your whiskers, and we'll go downstairs and investigate those kippers.
Yes, indeed. By the way, Mrs. Michol, we heard the funeral bell tolling earlier on. Do you know who was being buried?
What happened, Mrs. Michol?
Thank you. 
Thank that I frequently had occasion to point out to you, Watson. Has the morning post arrived yet, Mrs. Michol?
What is there to make of it, Watson? A jealous husband murders a faithfuless wife and then commits suicide. A tragic story, but a simple one.
Good morning, Gillian. Any letters for me today?
Hmm, you were right, Gilly, it is newspaper clippings. And by the way, you heard about the murder of Mrs. Threadgold, I suppose?
You're a busy man, Gillian.
Mrs. Lakland?
Oh, very well. Ask her to come in, please, Mrs. Michol.
The disappearance of an only son can never be a trivial matter.
Good morning. Please sit down, Mrs. Lakland. That's it. Now what's the trouble?
You've had no message from him since he left?
Have you any idea of his reason for leaving the village, Mrs. Lakland?
Mrs. Lakland, I'd be glad to help you, but you've given me no clues to work with. I'm afraid that I . . .
Mrs. Lakland, I wouldn't dream of accepting a fee. However I shall give your problem some thought. If I arrive at any conclusions, I'll get in touch with you at once.
Good day.
Nor do I -- at the moment. But a young man who has grown up in a small village like this may have led a life that his mother is totally unaware of. You said that you have to work on one of your stories today, Watson.
Splendid! Then you must stay at the Inn and work on your latest masterpiece, while I scour the village to see what may be found out about the missing young man.
Hello, Watson. I trust you had a profitable session with pen and paper?
The wedding ceremony that the worthy Gillian told us about this morning. Oh, I'm tired.
Among other things, that he had a secret love life unknown to his mother. And the object of his affections was none other than the maid who brought us our tea this morning.
No it's her half-day off and I was unable to find her. But I shall question her when she brings our tea tomorrow morning.
Come in, Mary. 
Where's Mary this morning?
I hear the village bell tolling for another funeral. Does Conforth have a burial every morning? I really don't see how the population can run to it.
Yes, Watson, I noticed it. This peaceful village is beginning to seem strangely sinister to me. And since you have no appetite for breakfast, perhaps you'll join me in a little excursion as soon as you're dressed.
To see the maid, Mary. I'm anxious to talk to her before another funeral bell begins to toll.
Yes, and there's Mary sitting on the porch.
Good morning, Mary. I'm sorry you're not feeling well.
No, Watson. Let's be honest and admit we didn't come here because of our concern for Mary's health. 
Mrs. Lakland asked me to try to find her son, Tom.
Yes, Tom Lakland. I thought you might be able to help me, Marian.
That sounds like your young friend from Daylis, Watson.
Quite. Gilly, you tolled another funeral bell today, didn't you?
Deserted you, Mary? You speak almost as if you were his wife.
And he never told his mother?
When he left, did he give no clues to his destination? No hints of any kind, Mary?
I think I do, Mary. Watson, we're taking a short train journey as soon as possible.
We're going to the town of Berry, in search of this young lady's husband.
Because the famous Fortune Cotton Mills are in Berry. It would seem possible that when your husband joked of burying his fortune, he was talking of going to the mills there.
Hello, Watson. Permit me to introduce you to Mr. Tom Lakland. Tom, this is Dr. Watson.
No let's waste time on being acrimonious Watson. Let's get back to the station as fast as we can. The return of the prodigal is long overdue. We must give them every opportunity to kill the fatted calf.
And after this reunion, Tom, I suggest that you both go over and see your mother. I'm sure she'll forgive you. 
Come on Watson! Help me break in the door!
And now, Tom, I think the time has come to reassure Mary that you did write to her.
The answer to that should be obvious my dear. Gilly the postman deliberately withheld them from you.
I have my suspicions. Strong suspicions. But I have to get proof. Tell me Mary, the day before yesterday, Mr. Threadgold murdered his wife. Do you know how he learned of her infidelity?
Precisely! Surely the whole terrible pattern begins to take shape. Tom?
I'm going to lay a trap. To spring it I shall need your assistance.
Wait here with Mary until darkness falls. Then muffle yourselves up and go to your mother's house. Wait there in hiding and let no outsiders see you until you hear from me.
Quiet, Watson. You understand, Tom?
Good. Come on, Watson.
I'll tell you as we go. One thing I can promise you. Before the sun is very high tomorrow I shall free this village from one of the most subtly evil powers I've ever come in contact with.
Good morning.
Yes, madam, you can't blame her.
You'll soon see, old chap. Come on. Let's slip into the vestry. This way.
Up the stairs that lead to the belfry. Here they are.
Then we must handle him to the best of our ability, Watson.
Obviously. That's why his power must be destroyed. This door apparently leads to the belfry. Keep your wits about you Watson.
Good morning, Gilly.
We haven't come up here to see you at work, Gilly. We know your diabolical work only too well.
You're mad with power, Gilly. You've tried to control the destiny of this village. In your position as postman you thought you have the power to give life and death.
You were responsible for John Letterby's suicide weren't you?
Your reign is over Gillian. You'll never toll a bell again. The only one you'll hear will be a prison bell.
Don't be too sure. I have enough influence to take your job away.
You couldn't live without the power they give you. Could you, Gilly?
You are already destroyed, Gilly.
Is full of stone. You'll be the laughing stock of the village, Gilly.
Come back, Gilly, come back!
Quite.
No, Watson. He drew a knife as he fled. And with that rickety staircase and the narrow opening leading into the bell chamber you'd never stand a chance. He'd get you on the first ledge.
There's only one way. He's in a tiny loft containing his beloved bells. We'll see how much he loves them at close quarters. I doubt if even he can stand the noise in that confined space. Where's that bell rope?
Not until you come down, Gilly.
You are mad, Gilly. Mad with power. Come down here I say.
I had no intention of causing that unhappy man to jump to his death, Watson. Though I can't help but feel that his poor, demented mind may find a happier oblivion this way rather than in the confines of an asylum.
It's been a shocking case, Watson. Shocking. And once again it proves the old saying that "violence does intrude recoil upon the violent." And, "the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another."
Eh? Who? What? Who's that?
Oh, Watson, it's you. Good evening, how do you do?
Yes, yes, of course I do, my dear fellow. It's only that I'm profoundly engaged. My mind was elsewhere. Er, close the door, Watson. Come in. There's a confounded din from the street.
Yes, that's much better. Sit down, won't you?
No, no, no, no. Of course! You know how glad I always am to have you, old friend, to discuss my problems with. Now, help yourself to a whiskey and soda, Watson.
And just tell me what you think of that.
That. Hanging on the back of the chair there. I've been contemplating it for the last half hour.
Just so.
Excellent. Excellent, Watson. You know where everything is, of course. And meanwhile I'll tell you the tale of this hat -- and I ask you to consider it, Watson, not as a battered old billycock, but as an intellectual problem.
Well, then. You know Peterson, the commissionaire at the hotel on the corner?
No, his trophy.
Well, he found it. The owner is unknown. It arrived here, Watson, in company with a fine fat goose, which I have no doubt at this moment is roasting merrily in front of the Petersons' fire.
Lemons? Oh, try the gasogene stand.
Oh, well, then that hideous bamboo smoking companion that Mrs. Hudson will insist on setting down beside the sofa every afternoon.
Well now, the facts are these, Watson: Peterson -- who is a very honest fellow, as you know -- was returning about four o'clock this morning from some small seasonal jollification and walking homewards down the Tottenham Court Road.
Certainly, Watson. Heh! Of course.
In front of him, there in the gaslight, Peterson suddenly saw a tallish man with a stick, walking with a slight stagger and carrying a white goose over his shoulder.
As he reached the corner of Warren Street, this man was suddenly set upon by a crowd of roughs. One of them knocked his hat off and as he raised his stick to defend himself, he accidentally swung it against a shop window and smashed the glass.
Well, Peterson, who was still wearing his commissionaire's uniform, rushed to the man's assistance. But the fellow, shocked at breaking a window and seeing a man in uniform running up to him, dropped his goose and took to his heels.
The roughs did the same, leaving Peterson master of the field of battle. He brought both bird and hat to me. There was a card on the bird's leg with "For Mrs. Henry Baker" written on it and the initials "H. B." are written on the label inside the hat.
But of course there are some thousands of people named Baker in this great city of ours, so it has been my little occupation for this last hour or so to try and deduce the exact identity of this one.
Yes, Watson. The owner of this hat, Watson-- --highly intellectual, fairly well-to-do, but in the space of the last three years seems to have fallen on evil days. He used to have foresight, but he has less now than formerly. I suspect he's taken to drink, which would also perhaps account for the fact that his wife no longer loves him.
Middle-aged, goes out little, has grizzled hair -- which he anoints with lime-cream -- and has been to the barber's lately. It is also extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.
Not at all.
Ah?
The hat hasn't been brushed for weeks, my dear fellow.
Well, when I see you, Watson, with such an accumulation of dust on your respectable headgear, I shall expect you to be returning to your old quarters here within the next day or two.
Not at all. One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance, but when I see no less than five, I think there can be little doubt that the owner must be brought in frequent contact with burning tallow. Yes, he probably walks upstairs at night with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never got tallow stains from a gasjet. Satisfied?
Elementary, my dear Watson.
That goose, my dear fellow--
Hello, hello, what's this? Who is it? Yes? Come in!
My dear Peterson!
Well, has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window? You're as white as a sheet.
Watson! Look.
It's more than a precious stone, Watson. It's the precious stone. The blue carbuncle.
Precisely. Missing for five days and with a descriptive advertisement every morning in The Times about it. And a reward of a thousand pounds for its recovery.
That's it, and they've arrested some plumber fellow who's supposed to have taken it from the countess's jewel case.
What else, Watson?
Hmm.
Hmm. Well, then the only problem remaining to be solved is the sequence of events leading from an empty jewel-case in a hotel room at one end, to the crop of a goose in the Tottenham Court Road at the other. Er, just give me a pencil and that slip of paper, will you, Peterson?
Find the owner of this hat. "H. B., Henry Baker." Yes, he began as a joke and now he's become a mystery. We'll try the simplest method first -- an advertisement. How's this, Watson? Read it.
Clear and concise, I think. Yes, if you've quite recovered from your astonishment, Peterson--
Just run down to the advertisement office and have this put in all the evening papers, will you?
All of them. Oh, and by the way, Peterson--?
On your way back, just see if you can buy another goose.
Yes, as near as possible the same size as that one that your family is about to devour.
Yes, here in my strong-box. And I'll just drop a note to the Countess to say we found it. Hurry up, Peterson.
Ah, Mr. Henry Baker, if I am not mistaken. Do come in, Mr. Baker.
Sit down, won't you? Pray, sit down.
This is my good friend, Dr. Watson.
Mayn't I help you to a whiskey and soda, Mr. Baker?
Oh, of course.
You see, Watson?
Now, Mr. Baker, you've come, haven't you, in answer to my advertisement? Er, is this your hat?
Then pray allow me to return it to you with my compliments. The bird, I am afraid, we've been compelled to eat.
It was quite a necessity, I'm afraid, since in these modern days we seem to have lost the art of refrigeration in which our Elizabethan ancestors were so adept. However, there's this other bird here on the sideboard to which you're extremely welcome as a replacement.
Not at all. Of course, er, we still have the feathers and the crop of your own bird, if you'd like to take them, too.
Most certainly. Would it trouble you, Mr. Baker, to tell me where you got that uncommonly fine bird of yours?
The Alpha Inn, Watson.
All's well that ends well, Mr. Baker. We were fortunate enough to find it, so-- Here's your hat.
And here is your new bird. Oh, I've put the old ticket onto it -- the one that was tied to the other goose's leg -- marked "To Mrs. Henry Baker."
Well, not at all. A peace offering, Mr. Baker?
Ah, quite.
Good night, Mr. Baker.
Well, well, well. So much for Mr. Henry Baker, Watson.
Yes, evident. I suggest, Watson, that we turn that proposed dinner of ours into a late supper. I'll tell Mrs. Hudson -- she'll forgive us -- and in the meanwhile let's follow up the clew of the Alpha Inn.
Yes, I'm afraid we shall have to battle our way out through those infernal waifs who are making night so hideous on our humble doorstep. Come, Watson -- we've work to do this Christmas Eve.
Breckinridge, Watson. Here, there it is -- you see? The largest stall of the lot. There's the name written up over it.
What's that you say? Horsy? Good for you, Watson. That fact might come in useful. Ah, good evening, Mr. Breckinridge. Mm, it's a cold night.
Sold out of geese, I see.
Ah, that's no good, I'm afraid. We want one tonight.
Yes, you supplied him with some incomparable birds, he told us. Where did you get them from, by the way?
Why, nothing, only that I wanted to know who sold you those geese.
Another one? What do you mean?
Well, I can assure you that we've nothing to do with any other people who've been making inquiries, Mr. Breckinridge. In fact, all I'm concerned with-- --is a little bet I've made.
Just so. I'm always ready to back my opinion and I bet a fiver with my friend the doctor here that the bird we et from the Alpha Inn was country bred.
No-no-no, it was nothing of the kind.
I tell you, it's country bred.
With pleasure. A sovereign. Every penny of it.
Well, what's this?
Can you see it, Watson, in this light?
Well, I must say, I could have sworn it was country bred. All right, you win, Mr. Breckinridge.
There's your sovereign.
Come along, doctor. I owe you five, I think.
Good evening, Mr. Breckinridge. Well, Watson, let's stand here by the gas lamp for a moment. I want to think.
Hello, what's going on?
Oh, yes. So there is. Let's see what's the matter.
The little fellow's coming this way, Watson. It looks as if we've saved our trip to Brixton.
Stand by if he gets nasty. He looks a bit of a shrimp, though; not much trouble. Here, my man! Not so fast. I'd just like a word with you.
I couldn't help overhearing your little disagreement with the good salesman over there, and I think I might be able to assist you.
My name is Sherlock Holmes, and it's my business to know what other people don't know.
On the contrary. You're trying to trace some geese, which were sold by a Mrs. Oakshott, to that man there, who sold them to the landlord of the Alpha Inn, who got rid of them through his goose club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member.
Watson, be good enough to signal for a four-wheeler, will you?
I think, my friend, we'd better discuss this whole matter in some cozy place rather than in the crowded street. We'll go to my room, shall we? Oh, what's your name, may I ask?
No-no-no, the real name. It's always so awkward doing business with an alias.
Ah! Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan, I believe.
Quite so. You have the cab, Watson?
Splendid, splendid. Now, would you mind just standing on Mr. Ryder's other side and, er-- --just take him by the arm, will you? He might have a fancy to go for a little walk.
Well now, here we are. The fire looks very seasonable in this weather. Do put some more coal on, would you, Watson?
Now then, pray take the basket-chair, Mr. Ryder. You look chilly.
Thank you, Watson, if you will! You'll find the lemons behind you on the gasogene stand.
There, behind the Persian slipper. Oh, you might hand it to me, will you, dear fellow? I'd like some tobacco.
Thank you so much. Well now, Mr. Ryder--
You, er-- You want to know what became of those geese, Mr. Ryder -- or rather of that goose, for I fancy it was only one that you were interested in: a white one with a black bar across its tail.
And a most remarkable bird, if I may say so, Mr. Ryder. Watson, hand me over my strong-box, if you please.
Ah, that bird laid an egg after it was dead, Mr. Ryder.
The bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here.
The game's up, Ryder.
Hang on to him, Watson!
Poor devil, hey? Heavens, what a worm the fellow is. He's not got blood enough to go in for felony.
You know perfectly well what you've done, Ryder. It only needs one or two more links, Watson, to make the case complete. Now then, Ryder, who told you of the Countess of Morcar's jewel, the blue carbuncle?
Exactly. And so you invented some excuse to send that unfortunate young Horner into the countess's hotel room -- and after he was gone, you rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and put the blame onto him.
Ah.
Get up off the floor, man! It's no good kneeling to me. You didn't show much mercy to Horner, did you?
Get up. Get up! Watson, help him onto his feet, for heaven's sake.
Your sister?
Aha.
Ah, you forced the stone down the bird's throat.
I'm not quite sure, but I think, all things considered, it might be best to--
--get out, Ryder!
I mean get out, man!
I don't want to hear any more from you; get out.
Get out!
Well, well! A most singular and whimsical business, my dear Watson.
Well, when all is said and done, Watson, I'm really not retained by the police to supplement their deficiencies. As soon as I send the stone back, the case against Horner will collapse at once. There'll be no witness.
Well, it's just possible that I'm also saving a soul. I don't believe he'll go wrong again. He's too scared. Besides, Watson--
Well, this is the season of forgiveness, man. Listen. Twelve o'clock! It's Christmas Day. Oh, pass me some of that delicious punch of yours, won't you? And tell me you forgive me, too.
For being so surly yesterday morning when you offered me the compliments of the season. I return them now with all my heart. And here's your health, old friend, with my glass upraised. A merry Christmas, my dear Watson.
God save her gracious Majesty.
I see you have some newspapers there, Watson. Let's see what they have to say about the matter.
Oh, no matter, my dear fellow; the Telegraph has also covered the occurrence very fully. I have it here.
Er-- "Hunter, on the return of his fellow grooms, sent a message up to the trainer, Straker, to tell him what had happened. Straker seems to have been vaguely uneasy about the matter, for although he'd been to bed he got up again at one o'clock in the morning telling his wife that he was going down to the stable to see if all was well. He put on a mackintosh, for it was raining heavily, and left the house." Hm! Quite a wealth of detail, my dear Watson. And here I have the notes of Mrs. Straker's statement.
"After her husband had gone out she went back to sleep again and didn't wake until seven o'clock in the morning. Finding him still absent, she called the maid and they set off together for the stables. They found the door wide open. Inside, huddled on a chair, was Hunter in a state of complete stupor. The lads in the loft overhead had heard nothing all night, but the favorite's stall was empty and there was no sign of the trainer."
Undoubtedly. "Mrs. Straker and the maid left him and ran up to the moor to see whether Straker had merely taken the horse out for exercise. And so the murder was discovered." Suppose you read me the rest of Mrs. Straker's statement.
Mm hm.
Well, Watson, that has passed our little journey quite agreeably. And here we are at Tavistock. 
I trust that I may be able to assist you, sir. Has there been any fresh development?
Excellent, my dear Watson. It's more than possible; it's probable. In which case one of the main points in favor of the accused disappears. 
A clever counsel would tear your case to rags. Why should Simpson take the horse out of the stable? If he wished to injure it, he could do it there. Has a duplicate key to the stable door been found in his possession? What chemist sold him the powdered opium? Above all, where could he -- he, a stranger to the district -- hide a horse? And such a horse as this! Tell me, what is his own explanation as to the note which he wished the maid to give to the stable boy?
What does he say about the cravat?
Mmm, it's certainly possible. 
There's another training stable quite close, I believe. 
And nothing to connect Fitzroy Simpson with their interests?
No, I think I prefer to stay here a little while and go into one or two questions of detail. Straker was brought back here, I suppose. 
He's been in your service some years, Colonel? 
I presume that you made an inventory of what he had in his pockets at the time of his death, Inspector? 
Aha.
Yea. A very singular knife, Watson. Surely in your line.
A strange thing for a man to carry with him on a rough expedition. Why, it won't even shut up to go into his pocket.
And the papers? 
May I see that bill, please? 
William Derbyshire? 
Had he been staying here then? Did Mrs. Straker know him? 
How do you do, Mrs. Straker? Surely we've met before. At a garden party in Plymouth recently. 
Dear me, I could have sworn it. You wore a costume of dove-colored silk with ostrich feather trimmings. 
Oh. Well, that settles it then. 
Of course.
Oh, do you? As a matter of fact, I was just remembering a really excellent curry we once et together in Soho.
There was no wind that night, I understand. 
Well, in that case the coat was not blown against the furze-bushes. It must have been placed there. 
Very interesting.
My dear Inspector, you surpass yourself.
Hullo! What's this? A spent match, eh? Excellent. 
It was invisible; buried in the mud. I only found it because I was looking for it. 
I thought it not unlikely. You'll have searched the ferns around the rim of the hollow for any more tracks, of course. 
Good. Then I'll take a little walk over the moors before it grows dark, and I think I'll put this horseshoe in my pocket - just for luck. 
Certainly not, Colonel! I should let the name stand. 
We may leave the question of who killed John Straker for the moment and confine ourselves to finding out what has become of the horse. Now, supposing he broke away during or after the tragedy, where could he have got to?
Oh, dear, no. The horse is a gregarious animal. If left to himself, his instincts would have been either to return to King's Pyland or go on over to Capleton yonder. Why should he run wild upon the moor? As he's not at King's Pyland, he must be over there - at Capleton! Come along. 
I only wanted to ask you a question. Would I be too early to see your master, Mr. Silas Brown, if I were to call here at five o'clock tomorrow morning? 
Ten minutes talk with you, my good sir. 
One word in your ear, my friend. In your own interest.
Very good. Shall we argue about it here in public or talk it over in your parlor? Or do I go to the police? 
There must be no mistake. 
No, no, don't. I'll write to you about that. No tricks now!
Yes, I think I can. Well, you shall hear from me tomorrow. Good day to you. 
You see, Watson? A more perfect compound of the bully, coward, and sneak than Master Silas Brown I have seldom met with.
Oh, he tried to bluster it out, but I told him so exactly what his actions had been that morning that he's convinced I was actually watching him. He was first down as usual and, seeing a strange horse wandering on the moor, he went out to it. When he recognized it as Silver Blaze -- from the white splash on its forehead -- his first instinct was to return it to the King's Pyland stable, which he set out to do. But then he realized that if the horse could only be hidden till after the Wessex Cup, his own horse Desborough would almost certainly win, so he changed his mind and turned back halfway; brought Silver Blaze down to his own stables.
Oh, an old horse-fakir like him has many a dodge.
My dear fellow, he'll guard it like the apple of his eye. He knows that his only hope of mercy is to produce it safely at the racetrack for the Wessex Cup. I made that perfectly clear to him. But I have a little trick to play on Colonel Ross. You may have noticed that his manner to me was just a trifle cavalier. So neither of us, please, for the present will say anything to him about the horse.
And of course this is all quite a minor matter compared with the question of who killed John Straker.
On the contrary. We'll both go back to London by the night train. 
My friend and I return to town by the midnight-express. We've had a charming little breath of your Dartmoor air. 
There are certainly grave difficulties in the way. I have every hope, however, that your horse will be at the race track next Tuesday and I beg that you will have your jockey in readiness. Oh, may I take this photograph of John Straker with me back to town? 
Goodbye. Goodbye, colonel! I hope to see you at the Wessex Cup -- and Silver Blaze. [Goodbye, Inspector.
To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time.
That was the curious incident.]
You've only to wash his face and his leg in spirits of wine and you will find that he's just the same old Silver Blaze as ever.
Yes, I found him in the hands of a fakir, and took the liberty of running him just as he was sent over. 
I have done so.
He's in our company at the present moment.
I am not referring to you, Colonel. The real murderer is standing immediately before you.
Yes, the horse. Silver Blaze himself. It may lessen the guilt somewhat if I say that the killing was done entirely in self-defense and that John Straker was a man who was quite unworthy of your confidence.
There goes the bell, and as I stand to win a little on the next race, I shall defer a lengthier explanation till a more fitting time.
I must confess that I even suspected Fitzroy Simpson myself for a time. It was only when I reached the trainer's house that the immense significance of the curried mutton occurred to me. 
Exactly. Powdered opium has a disagreeable and perceptible flavor. Only something more strongly flavored -- like a curry -- could have disguised the taste. Now, Fitzroy Simpson could never have known that the maid would be serving the stable lad with a curry that night. The only people who could have known that were people in the house. So who could have taken advantage of the fact? Then there was the silence of the dog when the horse was taken from the stable. It failed to bark because it knew who the intruder was. I was already quite convinced that the intruder must have been John Straker himself. 
The answer to that was in John Straker's pocket. 
Precisely. Addressed to William Derbyshire. That set me thinking. Perhaps John Straker was leading a double life. After all, his wife confirmed that the expensive costume wasn't for her, and by recognizing the photo that I showed her, Madame Lesurier, the dressmaker, later confirmed that John Straker had indeed bought it there -- to give to a woman of more expensive tastes than his wife.
The knife gave me the final clue. It was a surgical knife -- such as could be used to lame a horse without leaving any visible evidence of foul play. By laming Silver Blaze and betting on Desborough, John Straker would have been able to retrieve his fortune.
He led the horse out onto the moor so that when he cut its tendon its plunging wouldn't waken the grooms overhead. In order that he could see what he was going to do, he needed a candle. So that the candle should not be seen, he led the horse to the hollow. In lighting the candle, he dropped that spent match in the mud. Unfortunately for him, the light must have scared the horse -- unless it was instinct. Whichever it was, the horse lashed out and its steel shoe caught Straker full in the forehead. He'd already taken off his mackintosh to be freer -- and, as he fell, gashed his thigh on his own knife. 
Simpson said that he lost it; no doubt he did. Straker must have found it and picked it up, perhaps with the idea of using it to secure the horse's leg. Well, that disposes of everything. Quite simple. Perhaps we could while away the rest of this journey, my dear Watson, with a game of chess. 
Care for a cigar, Watson?
Flying Scotsman's living up to its name. We're going splendidly. Our present rate is fifty-three-and-a-half miles an hour.
Nor have I, but the telegraph posts on this line are sixty yards apart. With the aid of a watch the calculation is a simple one. Watson, my dear fellow, we have several hours ahead of us. Tell me more about Sir Walter Dunbar. I have a feeling that he is in some kind of trouble, and that you haven't wanted to talk about it.
Oh, indeed? The night of New Year's Eve, eh?
The father of the present baronet, I suppose.
Very interesting story, Watson. And that child, of course, is the gentleman we are going to see now, Sir Walter Dunbar.
And the first baronet was a friend of Sir Walter Scott, while his son can boast of your acquaintance. Why, it's a family singularly rich in literary friendships.
So poor Sir Walter is still waiting for his iron box full of gold.
A most amusing situation, though I'm afraid Sir Walter finds it far from entertaining. The lawyers must have been extremely scrupulous in abiding by the letter of the document.
I'm delighted you accepted the holiday invitation of Sir Walter, my dear fellow. I've needed a rest, but I've always loathed too strict a one. This situation may pose a nice little problem for me.
Yes, I'm reasonably certain that the agèd Sir Walter Dunbar will not get his iron box full of gold on this New Year's Eve, either. But we shall see, old fellow; we shall see.
How do you do, Mr. Dunbar?
In the event of your grandfather's death, you would be the next baronet, I take it?
My congratulations.
How do you do, Miss Small?
How do you do, Sir Walter?
How do you do?
He's bringing the famous iron box with him, Sir Walter?
Yes, and from the size of the box, at a rough guess, I should estimate its cubic content in gold at around five thousand pounds. Not a vast sum, perhaps, to a business man like Mr. Small, but a windfall to an impecunious Scottish baronet.
A strong young man, Mr. Murdock.
A box that size full of golden sovereigns would weigh a considerable amount, and yet the lawyer carried it single-handed.
Well, I hoped no one would bring up this point, but-- Heh! It's the little problem I referred to on the train, my dear Watson.
I'm afraid it's not, Sir Walter.
Because of a slight imbalance that would otherwise be produced in the calendar. Of the even century years, only those divisible by four hundred are leap years. In other words, Sixteen Hundred was a leap year, the year Two Thousand will be a leap year, but Eighteen Hundred and Nineteen Hundred are not leap years.
I'm very much afraid that I am, young man.
Yes, a most depressing atmosphere in which to welcome the new year. But let us, at least, make the best of it. I think I'll go and have a talk with Sir Walter. And you, my dear chap, why not try and cheer up the young folks? Some of your experiences in India may help them take their minds off their troubles.
The devil's work afoot, Watson. Come with me, old fellow; and you, Mr. Dunbar.
It's Sir Walter. I went to his room. It was in darkness, but in the moonlight I saw two figures struggling by the open casement. One of them was Sir Walter. As I entered he disappeared from sight. His attacker had pushed him out of the window into the moat.
The other man got away in the darkness. We must get lanterns and go out to the moat at once. Though I'm very much afraid, Mr. Dunbar, that your grandfather is beyond our help!
Not a thing.
I'm afraid we'll never find him without dragnets and grappling hooks. Have to call the police. What time is it? Sir Ian? Do you know the time?
Sir Ian.
And the time, Sir Ian?
A quarter of an hour to the new year. Sir Ian, doesn't that fact suggest something to you?
And I, Watson, like the look of it very much. 
Haven't I? [X] And I wonder what causes the beads of perspiration on Mr. Small's brow.
And I wonder what causes the singular look of apprehension on the face of Murdock, the young lawyer. You remember, of course, on my remarking how easily he carried the large iron box.
Ssh, Watson. 
The new year is approaching. 
Good lad. I'd hoped he'd think of it.
Except for a sheet of notepaper in the bottom.
Gentlemen, gentlemen, please.
Do I, my dear Watson? I must say, I am absolutely fascinated by listening to three people accusing each other of murder -- and each of them producing perfectly sound motives. It's a remarkable example of the dangers of reasoning from motive alone. We should profit by experience, Watson. 
I suppose this game of charades is getting a little out of hand, Miss Small. Let's conclude it. You'd better come out now!
The explanation is a very simple one, ladies and gentlemen. When you arrived here tonight, Mr. Murdock, I knew from the way you handled the box that it could not contain the sum of gold it was supposed to.
Yes, and Sir Walter was an eager conspirator. 
And so we invented the fake murder story. By the way, Ian, I must congratulate you for grasping the possibilities of the situation so speedily. If you hadn't demanded the opening of the box, the Murdock secret might still be a secret. 
I'm not sure that we have finished with the matter. Mr. Murdock?
You say that your family took four thousand pounds from that box?
Curious. I would have sworn from its size that it would hold closer to five thousand. And in your account of the legend, Watson, you told me that Sir Thomas Dunbar stated on his deathbed that he had put something else in the box.
Something for a rainy day, is that it?
Did the Murdocks find that extra something?
Now that's very odd. I think I'll take a closer look at that box, if you don't mind.
I admire your resolution, young lady, but I hardly think it will be necessary.
Permit me to show you all the treasure of the Dunbars. 
The "something for a rainy day" that old Sir Thomas spoke of. You see, since the
Quite so. The manuscript of a book. Look at the title page and see the author's name.
I think, Sir Walter, that an original and unpublished manuscript by your distinguished namesake will prove worth several times the gold that is missing from that box. 
Then let's complete it -- by singing the traditional song of the season, "Auld Lang Syne." And in this case, when we sing "Should auld acquaintance be forgot," I feel that in, our hearts, we should be thinking of Sir Walter Scott. Though he died over sixty years ago, he's made us all very happy here tonight.
